Thank you, boys, thank you.
Howdy, friends, how are y'all?
Yes, here it is again, your old woods rider, Jelly Elliott and the Knothead, sitting here under the old pine tree, and we're going to play a few tunes for you, and we've got a few things we want to talk over with you about the woods, and first one thing and another.
So just pull up the chair and make yourself comfortable there, and we'll do our best to
Amuse you.
Play for you.
Here we go with the first tune.
It features Bob Henderson, the fiddle player here.
And he's going to do a hoedown.
Charlie, if you let me have that bass fiddle, I'll do my best to play some of it.
Bob Henderson's going to do a little thing called Sally Good.
Oh, bring it up!
Thank you, Bob.
Thank you.
There it was, friend, a little thing called Sally Gooden.
You think I'm out of wind, don't you?
Well, I ain't the wind out of me.
You know, friends, this business of tree planting, tree planting, I wanted to talk over that situation with you, this tree planting.
Now, there's a lot of people that are really interested in planting trees.
The state nurses are really hard-pressed to supply all the tree demands.
I mean, little trees for the people that want them.
Now, there's one thing of planting trees, but another thing, just as important, is to protect them and keep them going until they get up where they can kind of take care of themselves.
And so grazing won't hurt them and other things, for example.
But fire, that's the thing.
Now, that's the bad thing.
That's the enemy, fire.
Now, there was a lumber company.
I know of a lumber company that is doing a lot of good planting in one part of the state.
And there's another company.
They had a lot of land that really needed tree planting, but they wasn't doing any planting.
So I asked the woods boss why, how come they wasn't planting?
And he told me that his company, along with a lot of others, that owners in that section, they was afraid to plant little trees because they were still having so many fires.
For some reason or other that he didn't know why, they just was afraid to plant.
Now, ain't that something?
One section of the state was getting good money for pulpwood and paying good wages.
Everybody was working, plenty of jobs, and they was really planting trees on their land and building it up.
And right over there in the other section, well, it's a shame, ain't it?
Don't you agree with me?
Yes, sir?
I do.
I expect we better sing a song here.
In fact, we, Ray Parker, that is.
Ray's going to sing a pretty tune here, Let Old Mother Nature Have Her Way.
Now, darling, this is my desire To set your little old heart on fire And do the things that lovers always do So put your little hand in mine
a little closer.
Well, there ain't no use to stay so far away.
I'd like to touch your lips through mine.
I'd like to win your love divine and let old mother
Now my baby, take a chance, cause I'm a achin' for old man.
I know that you were meant for me to love.
You know your heart is
Thank you, Ray, thank you.
I think that is mighty nicely done there, buddy.
Yes, you know, friends, I'll just stand over there thinking.
Here a while back, a friend of mine, Jim Lankford, he's a farm forester, and some folks call them service foresters.
Well, me and him went out to school, a little school out in the country, and Jim give them kids a mighty nice talk on trees and what they meant in terms of money and protection and land from...
all that erosion and everything, you know what all it meant, the shelter for the stock and all that sort of stuff.
Well, at the end of Jim's talk, when he got through there, just before he got through rather, he reached in his pocket and he pulled out a real little live tree, a little bitty pine tree.
I didn't even know he had it in his pocket, but he did.
He had a real little live tree and he held it up high there where all the kids could see it.
Nice little seedling there, I guess about three inches
Now, that's mighty small, ain't it?
But that's what he had in his pocket.
And he held it up high, and he said to them kids, and he said, boys and girls, this little tree belongs to you.
It don't matter whose land it grows on, and it'll mean real money to you if you're protected from fire.
And I thought that meant a whole lot.
That was covering a lot of territory, and it had a lot of meaning to it.
And did you ever stop to think of that, friend?
You can go into a section of the country where they have lots of timberland and everybody's working and there's a lot of jobs and everybody's on the payroll.
And that means a whole lot.
Just stop and think a minute what that meant.
I think Jim had something there.
And there was one little fella in the crowd there, one little fella in school.
He carried his, he carried Jim's story home with him to his father.
And he told the whole story and the
It was a gospel, because this boy's father told Jim what happened, and Jim told me to pass it on to you friends out there.
Oh, yeah, where was I now?
Oh, yeah.
Now, this little boy's daddy, he didn't impress too easily.
He came from a long line of folks who believed it right and proper to burn the woods and all that sort of thing.
Might do some good by killing boll weevils and snakes and ticks and
rats and all that sort of thing now can you imagine that well anyway he believed in these things you know and this man told his little boy he said that any fire that he set out any fire he set out wouldn't hurt nothing and it wouldn't hurt anything and uh that his father ahead of him burned and his grandfather burned and his great grandfather burned and he figured he ought to burn too
Well, I'm laughing, friends, but it's really not funny.
It's funny in a way.
In another way, it's not funny.
Now, they burned the same land many, many years before him.
Well, in a few days, the time was right.
So this man, strong fire, crosses one side of his woods along the edge there and started to burn it.
When the youngster come home from school,
he run out there and looked the situation over right quick and he run out there ahead of the fire and scrambled around there and dug in the grass and his daddy was standing over there looking at him and he dug around in the grass a few minutes and fooled around and directly he got up and stood up kind of had a smile on his face and he went over to where his daddy was went right straight over to his daddy and uh he had still had this grin on his face and he told his daddy he says daddy
He said, that fire may not hurt the big trees too much.
And there are your trees.
But in that grass is hiding these little trees that someday are going to be my trees.
And here's one of them.
And he pulled that little tree out of his pocket and showed it to his daddy.
Well, I thought that was pretty cute.
It really was.
That little boy was thinking.
That boy, that had impressed.
What Jim had told him had impressed on his mind
And right away, his daddy, he, I don't know, you know how the kids are.
I got some of my own, and they can kind of get next to you.
So his daddy got busy and got out there, and they put out the fire.
And he stopped the fire from burning.
Well, so friends, that little child done something there that me or probably nobody else could have done.
And I think it's a wonderful thing.
And that broke a bad, fire-setting habit of his daddy's.
That was something that I guess me or nobody else could have done.
I think that was mighty nice, don't you?
Here's another tune, and Herman's going to play this on his little steel guitar.
It's a little thing called Cracker Jacket.
Well, thank you, Herman, thank you.
You know, friends, I just can't get that story out of my mind.
The little boy in the little pine tree there.
You know, I guess it goes back to the old saying, the child will lead them.
You know, that's a funny thing.
Sometimes I look at the kids around these schools and I think how they're being mistreated.
Have you ever thought of that?
How the grown people will go out and carelessly let fire get out in the woods and burn up all the little trees and things that these kids are going to have to suffer for, that they're going to need after they grow up.
Had you ever thought of it along that line?
Well, that's something to think of.
We've run out of time, friends.
Before we go, here's just a little thought for the day I'd like to leave with you.
Hidden in the grass are the little trees that can bring forests back on poor land.
With protection from fire, they'll grow into cash.
Come on now, friends.
Lend nature a hand.
All right.
Well, friends, that takes up all the time we've got today, but we'll be back with you.
The local announcer will let you know the exact date.
Friends, don't forget this program is made possible and brought to you with the best wishes and compliments from your own State Forest Service and Uncle Sam's Forest Service with the cooperation of the station that you're now listening to.
Remember, friends, only you can prevent grass and woods fires.
I love you.
Thank you.